how's it going everyone my name is
potato and welcome back to another Grand
Theft Auto video today we're going to be
going over covering and talking about
the history of Liberty City from Grand
Theft Auto 4 of course and how it came
to Altima Leiby what it is today so
before we get started with a video I
would just like to quickly mention if
you guys enjoy this kind of content and
you would like to see more be sure to
leave a like and subscribe if you are
new around here as we were on the road
to 100,000 if we could go for 300 likes
in this video that would be great as
we'll now with all out of the way let's
go ahead and get started so I want to
say a lot of this information actually
comes from in-game sources in Grand
Theft Auto 4 such as stuff here on the
radio newspaper articles a website
articles I am more importantly a
documentary on that you can watch in GTA
4 called a history of Liberty City now
if you want to check that out for
yourself you can watch it on YouTube I'm
sure you can find it somewhere and down
in the description I will link a couple
articles from the Wikipedia page if guys
want to read up more on that also
because I'm not really going to be
covering everything and the whole
history of Liberty City as I'm not a
history teacher or anything like that
but I think it's so cool what Rockstar
did and how they put this together they
basically twisted and turned around all
the facts on how New York in the United
States was ultimately settled in real
life so it began or Liberty City began
when the Dutch sent out an English
explorer named Horatio Humble to find a
new location to sell marijuana and this
was in the year 1609 so he
coincidentally when he discovered that
the New York Eye Angela say the city or
the state of New York he sailed into a
there he sailed into the Humboldt River
I believe which was a quince identify
him but by the natives who were already
there however it says - it goes on and
says I believe that this was actually a
cover-up for him actually naming the
river after himself and him blaming it
on the natives which is pretty cool cuz
we'll hear more about the natives in a
few moments so the Dutch became
a colony soon after all these Europeans
traveled to this new city to find out
what freedom was truly like in the
colony of new Rotterdam now this new
colony promised convenience stores
public hangings as well as slave trade
craze that swept the colony ever since
the first ship load of slaves came over
now eventually the English set sail for
this colony and that I guess they were
searching for that this island called
Algonquin which we know of in gta4 and
after a while these settlers who were
already in the colony decided to sign a
petition to be ruled by England which is
completely the opposite of what actually
happened in real life which I think is
so cool now soon the English expanded
these colonies by eradicating the
natives who were already there just
wiping out these natives and taking over
three new islands for the colony which
we know of in gta4 as a broker which was
named after the Kings bastard son who
was conceived by a milkmaid and then
there was dukes that it was named after
the term Dookie because people smelled
so bad there and lastly there was
Alderney which was named after philip de
alderney the only man who could bear
living in this swampy industrial land oh
and there's one more of course there was
Bohan which was named after the Dutch
word Bohan that's what it means in real
life I don't think that's what it means
I think there's another term for it but
that's what Rockstar wanted to do and
make it I guess mean in the Grand Theft
Auto series now the British and the
Americans fought in what was to be known
as the American Revolution for freedom
from taxes and after receiving a statue
of a transvestite eating ice cream from
the French which in real life that would
be the Statute of Liberty Americans
ended up winning this battle and then
melting this statue of King George I
guess it was I into chains
and toilet seats and gold teeth so it's
so crazy just I love what Rockstar did
with this excuse me but a slavery was
soon outlawed in Liberty City women were
forced to spend time under train tracks
men if you guys know what I mean get the
gist of that politicians of Liberty City
decided to move to Washington DC after
Liberty City status as the capital was
removed and given to Washington DC so
overall I love what Rockstar did with
this for the millionth time now and I
would highly recommend that you guys go
and check out the the actual documentary
from GTA 4 and watch that because you'll
learn a whole lot more about Liberty
City and how it came to be opposed to me
just telling you like I said also I only
can article down below which summarizes
basically that whole documentary if you
don't want to watch it and you just want
to read up on it really fast but there
was a whole lot more going on in Liberty
City I believe it goes on to mention a
few years later there was a civil war
and then there was the Industrial a kind
of revolution a lot of the stuff that we
see in real life is what Rockstar
incorporated into this in GTA 4 in the
founding of Liberty City however they
just kind of twisted around the facts so
with that said that is really just about
it for this video if you guys did enjoy
and like to see more like it be sure to
leave a like and if we could go for 300
likes that would be awesome also be sure
to subscribe if you are new around here
as we're on the road to 100,000 with all
that out of the way I believe that's
just about it you guys I'll take it easy
have a safe one and I will talk to you
later bye